Tools and resources

Looking for tools you will need to get productive in IBM UX Research? This page outlines the key tools and resources that you will find helpful in your day to day work.

Tools and resources: Research tools
Work is currently underway on a comprehensive research tool strategy and standardized toolkit for all IBM UX researchers. This work by the Client Insights Practices tooling sub-team, led by Kristine Berry, will be informed with input from experienced researchers and leaders across all business units. If not listed below, please check with your team to find out what tools are being used for research.

Tool enablement—access detailed IBM enablement guides through the tool links below.

Software tool access request form:
Please complete this form to process your request: https://airtable.com/shrx4AkfUCbhLxNd1

Z tool access request form:
Please choose “tool/license request” and complete the form to process your request at https://airtable.com/shrrsqj6VUPchwJeL

Tool: Airtable
Description for Airtable: Collaborative database-spreadsheet hybrid application
Stage of research for Airtable: Research pipeline, project management, recruitment
Team access for Airtable: Software, Cloud, Z. Limited access to other research teams to submit to the User Insights Hub.

Tool: Alchemer (replaced by Qualtrics)
Description for Alchemer (SurveyGizmo): Create surveys to collect feedback from users or customers
Stage of research for Alchemer (SurveyGizmo): Data collection, reporting and socializing
Team access for Alchemer (SurveyGizmo): Software, Cloud, Power, Storage, Z

Tool: EnjoyHQ
Description for EnjoyHQ: Qualitative data processing platform and user data repository
Stage of research for EnjoyHQ: Research planning, transcription, data cleansing and analysis, reporting and socializing, storage and retrieval
Team access for EnjoyHQ: Software, Cloud

Tool: Respondent
Description for Respondent: Find research participants outside of our current user base
Stage of research for Respondent: Recruitment, participant tracking
Team access for Respondent: Software, Cloud, Storage, Z

Tool: User Interviews
Description for User Interviews: Find research participants outside of our current user base
Stage of research for User Interviews: Recruitment, participant tracking
Team access for User Interviews: Software, Cloud

Tool: UserZoom
Description for UserZoom: Platform to conduct evaluative moderated and unmoderated studies
Stage of research for UserZoom: Recruitment, data collection, data analysis, reporting and socializing
Team access for UserZoom: Software, Cloud

Tool: Optimal Workshop
Description for Optimal Workshop: Information architecture (IA)/ tree testing
Stage of research for Optimal Workshop: Data collection, data analysis, reporting and socializing
Team access for Optimal Workshop: Storage

Tools and resources: Resources for UX research

Research methods:
Skills Growth program—learn about research methods and foundational skills. Connect with subject matter experts to get inspired. This Software-based program is open to UX researchers across IBM.

Quantitative UX research (Quant UXR) guild—fostering community and promoting the use of quantitative UXR methods. The guild is open to anyone who is interested in or currently doing, inspiring, or facilitating the use of quantitative methods in UX research. Join us on slack, #quant-uxr-guild, and subscribe to the event series centered around user-nominated topics.

Skills Growth program: https://pages.github.ibm.com/cdai-design/practices/skills-growth-program/skills-growth-program

Quant UXR guild event series: https://ec.yourlearning.ibm.com/w3/series/10389410

IBM Research studies:
The User Insights Hub encompasses our user research library. You can currently use it to find past research projects, gain a better understanding of your user, and leverage insights from other research that might be relevant to your work.

User Insights Hub: https://sheldon.wdc1a.cirrus.ibm.com/home

Secondary research:
Use these resources to find market research, see how IBM offerings stack up to the competition, and to learn more about the products you’ll be covering in your research.

Resource: Clarity
Description for Clarity: Clarity provides IBMers with analysis of existing external data to understand the strengths, weaknesses, and perceived competitiveness of IBM offerings and their competitors.
Access for Clarity: IBM-wide

Resource: Northern Light
Description for Northern Light: External market research and news portal (Win-Loss miner merged with Northern Light).
Access for Northern Light: IBMers must request access

Resource: SmartCare
Description for SmartCare: SmartCare analytics delivers a comprehensive view of a customer’s experience across all IBM brands, divisions and geographies.
Access for SmartCare: IBMers must request access

Resource: Seismic
Description for Seismic: You’ll find valuable information on IBM offerings including product feature and sell sheets, market insights, product positioning and competetive advantages, and buyer personas.
Access for Seismic: IBM-wide

Resource: OM-PM Central
Description for OM-PM Central: Product management’s curated list of resources; start with the market analysis section.
Access for OM-PM Central: IBM-wide

Qualitative customer insights
Use these resources to learn more about how our customers interact with IBM products and webpages, and what they think about them.

Resource: Amplitude
Description for Amplitude: Amplitude is used to display web analytics for most products and platforms, including IBM Cloud, IBM Cloud Platform, and IBM.com. If you have an offering on the IBM Cloud Platform, you can leverage Amplitude for some very basic analytics out-of-the-box.
Access for Amplitude: IBMers request access through the AccessHub portal at https://w3.ibm.com/w3publisher/advocacy-academy/start/get-medallia-access

Resource: Hotjar
Description for Hotjar: Hotjar is a web analytics tool that collects user data on instrumented IBM marketing pages; heat maps, conversion funnels, scrolling behavior, form analysis, and visitor recordings. These functions allow researchers to visualize and understand user behavior to support qualitative findings.
Access for Hotjar: IBMers must request access.

Resource: Medallia
Description for Medallia: Medallia is the tool we use to collect and integrate Net Promoter Score (NPS) data. Within its dashboard, you will be able to review NPS responses (individual and aggregate) for several products across the company.
Access for Medallia: IBMers request access through the AccessHub portal at https://w3.ibm.com/w3publisher/advocacy-academy/start/get-medallia-access. Login with access at https://ibm.medallia.eu/sso/ibm/logonSubmit.do.

Tools and resources: Communication and productivity

Presentation templates:
Use the following templates for your presentations:

IBM masterbrand template in PowerPoint and Keynote: The resource folders linked below contain materials to help you make the most of these templates.

UX Research template in Keynote: Similar to the IBM masterbrand template with colors and icons unique to UX research.

Regardless of which version you choose, read through the full template guidance PDF at https://ibm.ent.box.com/s/uoz63rh5c17bgp6i77tvwonfmr2n6f2h/folder/177160745485 to familiarize yourself with how to make these templates work for you.


UX Research template in Keynote: https://ibm.box.com/s/1cwqdymjejx76oresv4zb5ajk6246z7q
IBM master template in Keynote: https://ibm.box.com/s/uoz63rh5c17bgp6i77tvwonfmr2n6f2h
UX Research template in PowerPoint: https://ibm.box.com/s/ev44169ftb4u5if4i8xem1xov4gq3ohr
IBM master template in PowerPoint: https://ibm.box.com/s/sr908z3t9v7pfnd293yqbvpprma7yxnu

Communication and productivity tools:

Resource: Outlook
Description for Outlook: Corporate email and calendar
Access for Outlook: IBM-wide

Resource: Slack
Description for Slack: Communication and collaboration
Access for Slack: IBM-wide

Resource: Box
Description for Box: File storage and sharing
Access for Box: IBM-wide

Resource: Mural
Description for Mural: Tool for live visual collaboration
Access for Mural: IBM-wide

Resource: Webex
Description for Webex: Online audio and video meetings with transcription functionality
Access for Webex: IBM-wide

Resource: Watson APIs
Description for Watson APIs: A suite of prebuilt IBM applications to help with data analysis and insights.
Access for Watson APIs: IBMers can use demo tools without full access to the API.

Resource: IBM SPSS
Description for IBM SPSS: SPSS Statistics is a software package used for interactive, or batched, statistical analysis. It’s a common research tool for working with quantitative data.
Access for IBM SPSS: Visit the Mac@IBM app store to install, it’s free.

Resource: WebEx Transcription
Description for WebEx Transcription: Turn on transcriptions for your Webex Account.
Access for WebEx Transcription: IBM-wide

Tools and resources: Slack channels:
Each business unit has a main slack channel, and usually many secondary channels. These channels live under a primary workspace, such as IBM Studios, Cloud and Cognitive Design, IBM Data and AI. Be sure your team adds you to the workspace and channels they use to communicate.

UX Research Slack channels:

Channel: 🔒 ux-research-software
Description: Channel for Software UX Research org
Workspaces: Added to all workspaces at IBM

Channel: #️⃣ ibm-ux-research
Description: Ask questions about UX research (AKA design or user research), share best practices + find community. All design researchers welcome.
Workspaces: Added to all workspaces at IBM

Channel: #️⃣ sup-user-engagements
Description: Dedicated to providing updates on the Sponsor User Program portal.
Workspaces: Added to all workspaces at IBM

Channel: #️⃣ guided-self-service-research
Description: This channel is a space where designers can ask questions and seek guidance from user researchers when planning their next GSS study.
Workspaces: Cloud and Cognitive Design

Channel: #️⃣ ibm-user-insights-hub
Description: IBM User Insights Hub, formerly Sheldon, provides user research and client insights about the products you work on. Use this channel to ask questions, and find relevant resources.
Workspaces: Added to all workspaces at IBM

Channel: #️⃣ user-research-study-results
Description: A place to view Software UX Research study results as they come hot off the presses! Visit ibm.biz/sheldon to search the research results repository.
Workspaces: IBM Cloud Platform, IBM CIO, IBM Data and AI, IBM Research, IBM Power, IBM Software, and IBM Security

Design slack channels:

Channel: #️⃣ carbon-design-system
Description: Design and development-related questions and general discussions regarding IBM’s design system, Carbon Design System.

Channel: #️⃣ design-toolbox
Description: Creating light-weight governance for the designer toolset in IBM.

Channel: #️⃣ designer-growth
Description: This channel brings together ALL IBM Design specialities across all IBM Studios, BUs, and geographies as part of ensuring designers are aware of growth opportunities as well as peer advice.

Channel: #️⃣ ibm-design-language
Description: The IBM Design Language channel is meant for opportunities to form SWAT teams around growing the language, engage in research opportunities and to give and receive feedback around team-level efforts to adopt and use the language.

Channel: #️⃣ visual-design
Description: Recieve the latest news from Carbon and IDL Design Playbacks, and IBM Blue Studio design updates.

Channel: #️⃣ askmeanything-design
Description: Every month, right here in this Slack channel: IBM’s most influential design leaders—live, unfiltered, and answering your questions.

Channel: #️⃣ general-all-studios
Description: General conversation related to IBM Design and IBM Studios (in IBM Studios workspace only).

Slack channels for general tools:

Channel: #️⃣ box-at-ibm
Description: Peer support only for all manner of Box issues.

Channel: #️⃣ airtable-guild
Description: Share tips, questions, best practices and news about Airtable.

Channel: #️⃣ slack-at-ibm
Description: Peer and volunteer support for Slack. Please use search and check pinned posts before asking. For official help use Help@IBM or the AskITSupport bot.

General Slack channels:

Channel: #️⃣ history-at-ibm
Description: A place to share and celebrate IBM history, hosted by the IBM Corporate Archives.

Channel: #️⃣ ibmer_news
Description: The home of IBMer News on Slack. Read, watch and share your ideas in the threads.

Channel: #️⃣ join-arvind
Description: Questions for CEO Arvind Krishna’s office hours.

Additional IBM Design resources:

IBM Design Thinking: https://www.ibm.com/design/thinking/
IBM Design community: https://w3.ibm.com/w3publisher/ibmdesigncommunity
IBM Design Language: https://www.ibm.com/design/language/philosophy/pov/
IBM Software Product Design: https://pages.github.ibm.com/cdai-design/

